To: cmu.macSubject: protectomat 2.6CC: protectomat 2.2 notes (changes for later versions are at the end):[This progam is available via anonymous ftp from host akutaktak.andrew.cmu.edu(128.2.35.1).  The file is aw0g/prot26.hqx.  Bugs to aw0g+@andrew.cmu.edu]Here are some programs I wrote to let you dump appleshare serverprotections to a text file and reload them.  It usefull in backingup a server, copying parts of server volumes to new locations whilemaintaining protections etc.The sources are provided in case anyone is interested.Only the executables are needed to actually load or save protection.To dump protection:Create a file called volume_list in whataver directory the pmDumpprogram is in (it can be on any disk or floppy).  This file shouldhave the name of each appleshare volume you want to dump.  The namesshould be one per line with no extra lines or spaces.  The names arenot following by trailing colon characters.  The capitilizationis not important.  Sample input:MyVolumeBigDisk80Double click on pmDump.appl.  It will read this file and process each volume.Protection information is dumped to a file based on the current date and time.The file name is protect.YYMMDD.HHMM for Year, Month, Day, Hour, Miniutes.A short summary is appended to the file history.YY (for current year).When pmDump finishes you need to entery OK<return> or ERROR<return> toacknowlege that you noticed how the run went.  Usualy errors are due toa disruption in network service and pmDump can be rerun to get a clean dump.The mouse and menu's should not be used as the output file and history filemay not be properly closed.  This history file will show if this has happenedbecause there won't be a 'finished normaly line' for a given run.To restore protections double click on pmLoad.appl.  It prompts for a name.  Typein the name of a dump file that pmDump made, for example:protect.91.0215.0910.If you only want to restore some protections or make some transformations tothe data then edit the input file or use awk/grep to make changes to it.  Sayfor example you move the folders BigDisk80:somefiles: to HugeDisk:somefiles: andwant to copy the protection.  You could keep only the lines in the protectionfile for BigDisk80:somefiles: then change the text ,BigDisk80:somefiles: to,HugeDisk:somefiles: then run pmLoad.  Note:There is a bug in finder haveingto do with copying lots and lots of files, be sure to use finder and notmultifinder and reboot afterwards before your system crashes.Errors come in two kinds fatal and warning.  Fatal errors stop beforecompleating loading/dumping all files.  For example if the output filewhile dumping is on a disk that becomes full.  Warning errors skipa given file and go on to try the rest.  For example if when reloadinga directory does not exist it is not created and the rest of the loadis attempted.  Both load and dump give a count of the number of problemsincountered at the end of there run (if the run isn't aborted by a fatalerror).  Generaly there should be no errors.Loading writes a log of problems to protectoload.log.  This will overwriteany previous protecoload.log.BUGS:The path to each file not including the volume name must be less than 256characters long.This version (2.2) can't read the 1.x file format.Aaron Wohl (aw0g+@andrew.cmu.edu)Carnegie Mellon UniversityComputing & ComunicationsSpecial Projectsprotectomat 2.6 changes:Update sources to build with THINK_C 5.0. Fix directory id variable to be 32bit to handle volumes with more than32k directories.protectomat 2.5 changes:dump and restore the volumes protections too not just the directories.on an error don't print rubbish after the name of the bad file.protectomat 2.3 changes:pmDump now warns if there is a Desktop file (since Desktop manager is used byappleshare server no Desktop file should exit).pmDump now checks to see how many files on the disk need to be backed up howmany kbytes of dirty files there are.pmDump now prints how old the oldest file is.  If files are copied onto the serverthis date is pretty useless as it keeps the write date from the source.